Hi, I'm Eryk Vershen,
Media Technologies Evangelist.
The AV Foundation framework
provides facilities for capture,
playback, reading, writing,
and editing videos.
Introduced in iOS 4,
it was brought to OS X in 10.7 Lion.
AV Foundation is a modern framework
designed on the basis of our many
years' experience with video at Apple.
In this video, you'll learn how to use
AV Foundation to playback video,
to edit videos together,
and also handle title animations,
essential knowledge for incorporating
video in your iOS or OS X application.
AV Foundation is our powerful
low-level framework for working
with timed audiovisual media.
It's available on iOS as well as OS X.
The first thing you want to do
with a movie or song is play it.
AV Foundation has great
support for playback.
You can control which tracks are played,
stop, start, seek, and get fine-grain
notifications during playback.
As we'll see,
AV Foundation is below the UI layer.
While this may require more work,
it allows you to completely customize
the controls you provide to your users.
AV Foundation allows you to capture
from the camera and microphone providing
you with control over features like
auto focus and the camera flash.
Support for editing is there,
from simple cuts-only editing
to compositing operations
like fades and wipes,
and the mixing of multiple audio
tracks like music or commentary
with the original audio.
You can both read and write
at the frame or sample level.
For example,
to apply a sepia filter to a video.
AV Foundation has a lot of functionality,
and these are only some of the classes.
AV Foundation is a great framework.
When should you use it?
When you want to inspect
properties like duration,
media type, or metadata,
to implement custom playback behavior,
when you need to edit multiple
pieces of media together,
to transcode a video
into some other format,
and when you want detailed
control over capture.
AV Foundation is, as its name implies,
a foundation-level framework.
It is underneath the UI.
There are no classes in
AV Foundation that are part of the UI.
Instead, there are model classes
that provide data to the UI.
AV Foundation sits on a number of
core foundation frameworks for audio,
video, media, and animation.
I'll mention some things
about these as I go along.
Now, AV Foundation can be broken
up in a number of ways.
For example, into playback, capture,
editing, and read and write.
And I really wanted to talk
about the whole framework today,
but you would be listening to me for
several hours instead of just an hour.
So I'm going to have
to leave out Capture,
but there's an excellent
presentation called Capturing from
the Camera Using AV Foundation on
iOS 5 from the 2011 WWDC.
And there's also another talk from
that same conference introducing
AV Foundation Capture for Lion.
So that topic's covered pretty well.
It turns out that Read&Write
is also well covered.
At the same conference
there was another talk,
Working with Media in the AV Foundation,
that went into some detail
on the Read&Write classes.
So instead, I'm going to talk about how
Core Animation interacts
with AV Foundation.
These two areas, Edit and Core Animation,
were areas that I found
confusing at first.
I hope I can dispel any confusion
you might have about them.
Let's start with playback.
In playback,
we're taking data from a movie file,
playing through the file,
and displaying the result
on our device's screen.
There are three principal
classes involved:
AV Asset, that is the movie file,
AV Player,
that controls the playback itself,
and AV Player Layer,
that is the main class involved
in displaying the images.
We'll start by discussing AV Asset.
AV Asset is an abstract base class that
represents any timed audio-visual media,
be it a video, a movie, a song,
a podcast, or whatever.
Assets might be local,
that is on the iOS device,
or they may be remote,
fetched over the network.
While assets are typically finite,
they may actually be streams of data,
such as from a webcam,
that have no real beginning or end.
Where do you get an asset from?
Well, they can be built into your
application in its bundle.
They can come from either the iPod media
library or the user's photo library.
In these cases, you don't have arbitrary
access to the files.
You ask the library for a special
URL that you can pass to AV Foundation.
They can also come from
the network as an HTTP URL.
An asset has a structure.
It's made of tracks,
and the tracks consist of segments.
A track is a single kind of media,
a video track or an audio track.
And you may have more than
one track of a given kind,
say an English language audio track,
a German audio track,
or some other language.
And tracks have segments.
While many tracks will
be a single segment,
we will see later on that
tracks can have many segments.
Now, merely because we've created an
asset object does not mean that
the tracks and other properties
are immediately accessible.
Getting values may take a substantial
time due to the file format,
the sheer size of the file,
or it's being located across the network.
To deal with the need to wait,
AV Foundation implements a protocol
on media objects which allows you to
ask for values to be loaded and be
notified when the loading has occurred.
The second major class is AV Player.
AVPlayer is a controller object.
Besides being the object that
you tell to play and pause,
it also has methods for
monitoring time passing.
Now, we can't directly connect
AV Player with an AV Asset.
Doing so would cause either the
Asset to know too much about the
playback state or the Player to
know too much about the Asset.
So instead, we use an AV Player item
to hold that state.
Now just as assets have tracks,
so too player items have
player item tracks that control
whether the tracks are enabled.
The last major class is AV Player Layer.
Here's our diagram again.
Now, in order to display anything,
it needs to be part of a
UIView or a subclass of UIView.
But UIView doesn't know
anything about AV Player.
It's not the kind of class it expects.
UI views expect to be backed by
core animation layer subclasses.
So AV Foundation supplies
a CA layer subclass,
AV Player Layer.
So now our picture of
playback classes is complete.
But what do we actually need to
do to cause playback to happen?
There are six steps.
Create the asset,
ask it to load its tracks,
then create a player item,
attach that to a player,
attach the player to a layer,
then when the item is ready to play,
play it.
So let's look at each
of these steps in turn.
How do I create an asset?
The concrete subclass is AVURLAsset.
In this example,
I'm calling the class method
URLAssetWithURL to create an
asset object from some URL,
which is either local or remote.
Prior to iOS 4.3,
you needed to instantiate
remote assets differently,
and you can refer to the documentation if
you need to know what to do in that case.
In order to ask for tracks or
other properties to be loaded,
you need to create an array of
strings that are the property names.
Then you pass that array to load
values asynchronously for keys.
Sometimes later,
the completion handler block you
passed will get executed on some queue.
Now, since we want to operate
on AVPlayer in that block,
and AVPlayer must only be
accessed from the main queue,
we need to trampoline
onto the main queue.
So here's the completion
block we're going to execute.
The first thing you do is
check the status of the tracks.
If the tracks are loaded,
then you can create a
player item for the asset.
Starting with iOS 5.0,
you only need to load properties
that you directly access,
but you should still explicitly
load tracks if you are
supporting earlier versions.
Once we have a player item,
we can attach it to a player.
While we are creating the AV player here,
it could be that the player
already exists and we only
set the player's player item.
The player needs to be attached to
a player layer in order to display.
In a few slides,
I'll show you how this view is
hooked up to the player layer so
that this does the right thing.
Now we have our objects hooked up,
but the player item isn't
necessarily ready to play yet.
We need to key-value observe the
status property of the player item so
we can detect when the item is ready.
In our observed value for keypath method,
we look for the right context
and trampoline to the main queue
to adjust our UI based on the
value of the player item status.
Now we can actually accept
requests to play from the user and
subsequently requests to pause.
I said I'd tell you how setting
the player views player,
which we did in our completion handler,
caused the player
layers player to be set.
What we have here is the simplest
way of getting an AV player
layer associated with a UI view.
We make a UI view subclass and we make
its layer class be AV player layer.
This means that the UI view
will instantiate an AV player
layer object for us.
When we set the views player,
what we do is set the
player of the player layer.
And when you fetch the view's player,
what we do is return the player
associated with the player layer.
So the player view is just mediating
our access to the player layer,
so we have one less object
to explicitly worry about.
Another detail to worry about:
when playback ends,
you may need to do something,
like rewind the video.
So you want to observe the "AV
Player Item Did Play to End Time"
notification so you can respond.
And then you need to implement the
method that receives the notification.
That got our basic playback working.
A common thing you'll want to do is
have a scrubber or slider that the user
can use for random access to the movie.
Let's talk about how you do that.
When the movie is playing normally,
you need to keep the scrubber
in sync with the current time.
You do this with a
periodic time observer.
You tell the player you want a block
called every tenth of a second or
whatever time interval is appropriate.
You want the block called on the main
queue because it will update UI elements,
and that block will get past the
current time so you can move the
scrubber thumb to the correct place.
When the user starts to
move the scrubber around,
you need to do a bit more work.
You need to pause playback
and remove that time observer.
And as the scrubber is moved around,
you need to move around in the movie.
Since seeks can take a while,
and because only one seek
can be in progress at a time,
you want to chain seeks together.
I haven't shown all the details,
but basically, if no seek is in progress,
then you should initiate a seek.
And if one is in progress,
you should remember the time the
user chose so your completion
handler can start the next seek.
Lastly, when the user stops scrubbing,
you want to recreate your time observer
and continue your normal playback.
We've seen a lot of
multi-threading so far:
completion handlers, notifications,
key value observers, and time observers.
You want to remember that your
UI classes and your AV player need to
be operated on only from the main queue.
And because virtually all of the
properties of an AV asset are non-atomic,
you need to make sure you
aren't manipulating the same
asset on more than one queue.
We've covered a bunch of stuff here.
Remember, the player is about control,
the player item is about
presentation state,
you can't see it without a player layer,
and you need to stay on the right cue.
Let's turn to editing.
What is editing?
Combining pieces of two or more tracks
to make a piece of a single track.
There are three kinds of editing
operations we do in AV Foundation.
Placing segments adjacent to each other,
that is what is called cuts-only editing.
Mixing audio tracks together
and compositing video tracks.
Let's look at the way we place
segments adjacent to each other,
which is with AV composition.
An AV composition object
is just a kind of asset.
It's composed of composition tracks,
and the tracks are composed of segments,
each of which can come
from a different asset.
Typically, we will be using an
AV mutable composition and
mutable composition track,
but segments are always
immutable objects.
Let's look at a picture
to make it a bit clearer.
We have three videos,
three assets to start with.
We take portions of each asset.
The portion I take from each
asset doesn't have to be
the same across all tracks.
I could take very different
portions of each track.
Let's look at what this looks
like at the object level.
We have a composition object
that contains two track objects,
and each track object contains
several segment objects.
Looking at one of the segments,
it indicates which movie is the source,
which track within the movie,
and the time range within that movie.
I want to talk briefly about how
AV Foundation represents time.
We don't use floating
point in AV Foundation.
Time scales like 29.97 don't mesh
well with binary floating point.
Remember 29.97 is actually precisely
30,000 divided by 1,001 or 29.9700299700,
etc.
When you mix this with other time scales,
it's easy to lose precision.
AV Foundation uses core media time.
This is not an object, but a C struct.
It is a value over a time scale.
The value is 64 bits.
The time scale is 32 bits.
The EPAC is used to distinguish values
associated with distinct timelines,
and EPOC0 is also used for durations.
We also have CM Time Range,
which is a start plus a duration.
And especially for compositions,
CM Time Mapping
which maps a time range in the source
asset to a time range in the composition.
That's compositions.
Now let's talk about mixing audio.
As an example, let's take adding a
commentary track to a video.
When we add a shorter
piece like this to a track,
the framework will implicitly add
empty segments to fill out the track.
What we want to do is have
the volume of the main audio
drop during the commentary.
This is called ducking the main track.
We will find that the only part of this
that needs to be described is denoted
by the part I've highlighted in red.
That is, we only need to describe
when the audio level changes.
Looking at this as objects,
we have an AV composition that includes
the video and audio tracks from an asset,
plus the commentary track
that comes from another asset.
The audio mix object only needs to
describe what happens to the one audio
track because the commentary track will
be implicitly mixed at normal volume.
So audio mix objects contain a list
of audio mix input parameter objects.
Each input parameter object
describes how the volume of one
track should be adjusted over time.
And tracks that are not
mentioned are implicitly mixed.
Let's turn to video compositing,
which is a bit different.
A video composition object describes
how to composite video tracks together.
So it describes the compositing order
and what should be done with each layer.
In this example, we want to take track
A and then composite track
A over B with A fading out,
and then use track B by
itself for a while,
and then instead layer track B in
front of A and fade B out to get to A,
so that we get a result that
looks something like this.
What you need to do is
for every time range,
make a composition instruction and then
make a composition layer instruction for
each track that you need to composite.
You order the layer instructions
into the composition instruction in
the compositing order and then order
the composition instructions into
the video composition in time order.
Audio and video are very
different as we can see now.
Audio is organized by tracks first
and then we describe how the volume
of the track changes over time.
Video on the other hand is
organized by time ranges and then
describes the order of compositing.
Also,
audio has implicit inclusion but with
video everything needs to be explicit.
These merge objects,
audio mix and video composition,
are not assets.
They are operations to
be performed on assets.
What you do is pass one or both of
these objects to something else in
order to have the operations applied.
For example,
a player item can take an audio
mix and a video composition,
which describe how the asset should
be modified before being displayed.
An export session can do the same thing,
describing how the asset track
should be mixed as you save a copy.
For still images, we can describe how to
composite the video tracks
before the still is generated.
And when reading either
audio or video from an asset,
you can also have a mix
applied as you are reading.
The things to remember:
a composition is an asset.
Audio mixes are by track and
include other tracks implicitly,
whereas video compositions
are by time range and must
mention everything explicitly.
Now let's turn to core animation.
Your first question is probably,
"What does core animation
have to do with videos?"
Core animation underpins
all UI kit rendering in iOS.
You may not notice this because
we hide it for the simple cases,
for example, DrawRect.
Core animation has tremendous
functionality for graphical
operations and rather than
create some new interface,
we decided to leverage core
animation directly to enable
things like fancy title sequences.
Since UIView uses CA layer subclasses,
AV Foundation provides CA layer
subclasses for the UI to use:
Player Layer for playback and Capture
Preview for looking at capture.
Here's a class diagram.
You can see that AV Player layer
knows about a player and
AV Capture Video Preview layer
knows about a capture session.
The capture preview layer has some
extra functionality to be able
to easily mirror the video input.
What if I'm using a real core animation,
say adding some title to my video?
Let's take an example we used
at the developers conference.
We want to add a title and some stars,
and we want to spin the stars
around and have the whole thing
fade out after 10 seconds.
We want it to look something like this.
There we have our stars spinning,
and then it all fades out.
So we need a top-level layer,
and that layer needs to have an animation
on it that will do the fade-out.
And then we need a layer underneath
to hold that title string,
and another layer to
hold our ring of stars.
The ring of stars will need an
animation on it to do the spin,
but there's a problem.
Our UI view is going to
reference an AV player layer,
or maybe some layer tree that
contains that player layer,
and that will bring in the video.
But there's a distinction between times
above the line and below the line.
Above the line,
things happen in real time,
time since boot.
Below the line,
things happen in movie time,
which can go forward or backward.
So how do we make our
animation happen in movie time?
We add an AV synchronized layer,
which fixes the layer tree underneath
it to happen in movie time.
AV synchronized layer needs
to reference a specific player
item which is associated with
the asset we want to sync with.
But this only works in the
context of an AV player.
So we need something else:
an AV Video Composition
Core Animation Tool,
which we use to sync otherwise.
This is attached to a video composition.
That is,
I have to have a video composition
in order to sync in other contexts.
Now both of these objects are
constructed only with class methods.
AV synchronized layer is created
with a "with player" item.
That's a shortened name.
It's actually called synchronized
layer with player item.
Core Animation Tool has two methods.
The first method is "With
Additional Layer as Track ID." Now,
I've shortened that name again.
It's actually "Video Composition
Core Animation Tool with
Additional Layer as Track ID."
What this does is add the first argument,
a CA layer,
as a virtual track to the asset that
the video composition is operating on.
The second method is with
post-processing as video layer.
It renders its second argument,
a CA layer,
and replaces the first argument,
a contained CA layer, with the results of
the video composition.
So either what we are doing is
we're making a layer tree a track
within our video composition,
or instead we make the video composition
a layer within our layer tree.
Now, rendering a layer tree is
an expensive operation,
so we can use the enablePostProcessing
property to tell a composition
instruction that is a particular
time range of the video that we
don't want to render the layer
tree during that time range since we,
as programmers,
know it will have no effect.
Another point that's important
has to do with coordinate systems.
The coordinate system for UIView
has its origin in the upper left.
But CAA layers default to
having origin lower left.
Now,
when I place a CAA layer in a UI view,
then the coordinate
system will get flipped.
But this only happens
when I'm in a UI view.
So what do we do when we're
using the core animation tool?
Because we have no UI view there.
Instead, we have to tell the layer
to flip its geometry.
This property is inherited,
so we only need to set it
at the root of the tree.
So, for display,
remember to use AV Player Layer or
AV Capture Video Preview Layer.
For timing,
use Synchronize Layer if you're
in an AV Player context and use
Core Animation Tool everywhere else.
In closing,
I talked about three groups of classes:
playback, edit, and core animation.
I didn't talk about ReadWrite or Capture.
There are also classes
around metadata and audio.
If you have questions about
any part of AV Foundation,
feel free to email me.
I mentioned several videos from
the Developers Conference 2011.
If you're interested in Capture,
you should also look at the Capture
talk from the 2010 conference.
I wanted to call out several
sample code programs:
ROSI Writer,
if you're manipulating frames;
AV Player Demo for information
on proper queue handling and
also how to deal with metadata.
Also,
you should look at the OS X samples.
Remember that AV Foundation is almost
identical on the two platforms.
Look especially at the Reader Writer
sample and the AV Metadata Editor.
So there you have it.
I look forward to seeing what you
do with video in your application.